# Media Alert

### WHEN：
9:30 AM, May 24, 2024

### WHERE: 
Under the Legislative Yuan’s Overpass on Qingdao E. Rd.

### WHAT:
0524 Action: Citizens Assemble at Legislature to Protest the Abuse of Congressional Powers

### Media Contact:

Guan-Ze Hsu, 0988287108 (for Taiwanese Media)

Echo Lin 0935292293 (for International Media)

Candia Tong 0965605503 (for Taiwanese and International Media)

---

The true masters of a nation are its people. On the 17th and 21st of May, tens of thousands of citizens gathered outside the Legislative Yuan during its sessions, fully committed to safeguarding Taiwan's democracy from any potential setbacks. Their presence underscored the power, unity, and resilience of Taiwan's civic society. Ultimately, their collective efforts thwarted the last-minute push by the KMT and TPP to swiftly pass legislative bills, revealing the misuse of Congressional powers. As the movement gained traction, more individuals came to understand the detrimental effects of the proposed amendments to the Law Governing Legislative Yuan Powers and the introduction of contempt as a crime against the Legislative Yuan in the Penal Code. This understanding highlighted the potential threats to their rights and the delicate balance of constitutional powers. Up to date, the public has witnessed and condemned the absurdity of the Blue and White Coalition using these legislative amendments as their secret weapons for political gains.

It's deeply troubling that despite the outcry from the people, the Legislative Yuan is persisting in pushing for a third reading of the abusive power bill on May 24. In response, over 60 CSOs, including the Taiwan Citizen Front, Economic Democracy Union, Taiwan Referendum Alliance, and Doublethink Lab have once again mobilized the public to assemble at the Legislative Yuan, continuing Taiwan citizens' fight to defend democracy.
