---
title: A Call to Action Nationwide
---

# A Call to Action Nationwide:Engage in Grassroots Democratic Dialogue, Veto and Re-vote the Bills

( Post-Event Statement at 1600)

After the amendment to "Law Governing Legislative Yuan's Powers" passed its third reading, civil society organizations announced the action plan in response to what they considered an unjust due process and fundamentally unconstitutional procedure. They called on the Executive Yuan to veto the bills, giving the Legislative Yuan a chance to re-examine and deliberate before the final vote. The organizers urged people nationwide to embrace grassroots democratic spirit, actively participate, and apply pressure to overstepping legislators. Following a press conference, over 10,000 people rolled the giant balls inscribed with "Citizens Defend Democracy, Restart Social Dialogue" into the Legislative Yuan, symbolically bringing the voice of the people to the legislature. In the following week, the organizers also plan to meet with the Premier of the Executive Yuan, the Speaker of the Legislative Yuan, and the DPP Caucus of the Legislative Yuan.

First, civil society organizations urged the Executive Yuan to veto the bills, thus providing the Legislative Yuan an opportunity to re-examine and deliberate on these issues. Chung-chiang Lai, the convener of the Economic Democracy Union, clarified that the Executive Yuan’s veto is not meant to increase the tensions between the ruling and opposition parties. Instead, it aims to allow both sides to thoroughly deliberate and engage in comprehensive discussion after reviewing the complete text. This would help restore the democratic deliberation space in the respective committees previously dominated and monopolized by the KMT and TPP.

Chung-chiang Lai stated that the process of the Executive Yuan’s veto and the Legislative Yuan’s re-examination provides an opportunity for KMT and TPP legislators to reassess public opinion. This reassessment helps the lawmakers determine whether these bills undercut the separation of powers stipulated in the Constitution, infringe on freedom of expression, individual privacy and business confidentiality, or violate the Grand Justice’ judicial interpretations about the boundary between the Congressional investigation authority and the principle of legal reservation.

Secondly, Chung-chiang Lai highlighted that several provisions of the act raise significant constitutional concerns, prompting a call for the Executive Yuan and the DPP to pursue constitutional litigation. For instance, the mandate for interpellation following the State of the Union clearly breaches constitutional provisions. Article 25 of the Law Governing Legislative Yuan’s Powers grants legislators extensive interpellation authority, enabling them to demand officials as well as private citizens to provide information. This is at odds with the principle that investigative authority should be exercised collectively by the entire Legislative Yuan plenary session. Chung-chiang Lai urged the Executive Yuan or the DPP caucus to seek a constitutional review under the Constitutional Court Procedure Act to address these clearly unconstitutional provisions.

Thirdly, the organizers would request a meeting with Speaker Han to discuss the procedural due process and parliamentary transparency. Chung-chiang Lai also announced an initiative to promote "Grassroots Democratic Dialogue," encouraging civil groups and autonomous citizens nationwide to organize discussions and community events in the districts of KMT legislators. This effort aims to shed light on the details of parliamentary power abuse bills and the adverse effects on the separation of powers and Taiwan's democracy. CSOs will develop training materials for dummies, and offer training sessions for debriefers to help the public thoroughly understand the implications of the bills. This will enable citizens to effectively apply pressure on their legislators before the vote on the veto. Chung-chiang Lai emphasized that if these legislators persist in their act of power abuse, citizens will use their votes to hold them accountable.

Chung-chiang Lai has announced that the Taiwan Citizen Front will organize social dialogue in New Taipei City with a New Taipei Task Force. This initiative aims to unite local youth organizations, civic groups, and small political parties to collectively address the Kuomintang (KMT) legislative districts in New Taipei City. The campaign, called "Anti-Parliamentary Abuse: New Taipei Leads - Social Dialogue Action," will feature New Taipei City, the largest city in Taiwan, as the priority of the campaign.

When asked about the future plans regarding the recall of legislators involved in the power abuse this time, Chung-chiang Lai referred to the previous statements. He noted that although the bills have passed the third reading, there are four remedies available under Taiwan’s democratic mechanism: veto, constitutional interpretation, referendums, and recall of power-abuse legislators. After thorough discussions, the organizers have decided to take on the measures of veto and constitutional interpretation, and postpone the initiative of recall. They will monitor the performance of KMT legislators during the veto procedure.

The organizers urged a national campaign to expose the truth and hidden agenda behind these Congressional bills of the  abuse of powers. The Taiwan Citizen Front will provide training resources and materials to collaborate with local civic groups in New Taipei City. United we stand to safeguard democracy and uphold human rights.

Media Contacts:
Candia Tong, Hong Kong and Taiwan Democracy Concern Group  
+886 965605503 (For Taiwanese and International Media)

Echo Lin: +852 935292293 (International Media Contact)